
--- PAGE 1 ---
Sky Tunnel XL Residential Daylighting Systems

--- PAGE 2 ---
Sky Tunnel XL2
Daylighting The World For More Than 20 Years!
Introducing clear and comfortable daylight has never been easier. Natural daylight ensures that the people working or living in the indoor environment are happier and healthier.
By making an environmental choice and utilising this renewable energy, you will be helping to reduce the consumption of our environments precious resources, and saving money at the same time.
Available in 3 sizes, 343mm, 457mm & 535mm diameters, there is a size to suit any application.
Sky Tunnel™ sizes offer more actual light area than a typical 350mm, 450mm or 550mm tubular skylight available on the market.
A little extra light, can go a long way!
SG Eco Industries is the manufacturer of the Sky Tunnel™ and do not compromise on quality, design, materials or structural integrity.
Adhering strictly to the structural requirements set out by both the British Board of Agrément and Australian Standards.
Raw materials are sourced from all over the globe to ensure only the best quality materials are incorporated into the Sky Tunnel™ product.
Tested by time, Sky Tunnel™ is designed to withstand the rigors of use in commercial buildings, and for this reason construction companies have been using them for over 20 years.
Sky Tunnel™ has a 7 Year Manufacturers Warranty!

--- PAGE 3 ---
RESIDENTIAL APPLICATIONS
Suitable for Domestic application such as Bathrooms, Entrances, Kitchens, Hallways.....

--- PAGE 4 ---
Sky Tunnel- XL2
SAME GREAT PRODUCT... EVEN BETTER MODEL!
For over 20 years the Sky Tunnel™ has been delivering Free Natural Light to happy customers all over the world.
And with the New Model, the "XL2" Installation of the product has been made even easier!
The unit comes in 3 boxes, Roof Parts, Attic Parts and Ceiling Parts.
The roof parts are fully assembled and ready to go!
The dome is already screwed on and the tabs are installed.
The attic parts are also ready to go, the Flexi-tube has already been taped to the Upper Reflective Ring.
Twist it onto the roof parts, and your Sky Tunnel™ is ready to go up on the roof!
We still offer ventilation at no extra charge if required!
And the tabs are easier to change, no need to remove the dome to switch between vented and non vented.
A double glazed diffuser is a standard feature, not an optional extra.
This provides a more energy efficient unit in all climates.
This double glazed Diffuser is held in place by magnets sticking to other magnets in the surface of the ceiling frame.
The double glazed diffuser also includes a foam seal, already installed for maximum energy efficiency.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Sky Tunnel-XL²
SUITS ALL ROOF TYPES
TILE
CUSTOM ORB (CGI)
* OTHER PROFILES AVAILABLE
Rigid98 Tube
Sky Tunnel™ Rigid98 Tubing is fabricated from Miro-Silver, a premium quality aluminium product manufactured by ALANOD in Germany.
MIRO - SILVER the next generation, has a total reflectivity of 98%.
MIRO-SILVER delivers high efficiency luminance with little light transmission loss and the light stays completely white with no colour spectrum shift - even after numerous reflections.
It is also extremely durable and will not fade or lose reflectivity.

Flexi-Tube™™
Flexi-tube™ is a tubing system that can be used in certain applications up to 3m in length.
With up to 86% reflectivity, Flexi-tube™ is a cost effective alternative to Rigid98 Tube providing adequate light when applied in suitable applications.
Installation of a Sky Tunnel™™™ with Flexi-tube™ is very easy as the flexibility allows the installation of the Roof Parts and Ceiling Parts to be off centre, so avoiding obstructions in the attic space is simple.
Manufactured in house, from the highest quality local and imported materials, you can be sure our Flexi-tube™™™ will stand the test of time.
Afterall, it already has for 20 years!

Diameter of Sky Tunnel™™™
343mm (13.5")
457mm (18")
535mm (21")

Approximate Illumination Area
Rigid98 Tube
4m x 4m or 16m² (13' x 13')
5m x 5m or 25m² (16' x 16')
6m x 6m or 36m² (20' x 20')
using up to 3m (10') of tube length

Flexi-Tube™™
3m x 3m or 9m² (10' x 10')
4m x 4m or 16m² (13' x 13')
5m x 5m or 25m² (16' x 16')

--- PAGE 6 ---
Sky Tunnel XL2 ACCESSORIES
VARI-LIGHT
ELECTRIC LIGHT
POWER KIT
The Multiple Accessory Remote Control System (MARCS) will operate the following accessories:
1. Vari-light
A single flap damper system allowing full control of the amount of daylight entering the room.
3 buttons on the remote - OPEN, CLOSE & STOP give you the option of setting the exact amount of daylight you want.
2. Electric Light
LED lighting system that can be installed inside the Sky Tunnel for night time use.
Two buttons for the light - ON & OFF.
3. Power Kit - Exhaust Fan
Designed for use in bathrooms, toilets etc. allowing for the extraction of air from the room through the Sky Tunnel system.
Two buttons on the remote for the fan - ON & OFF.
The system uses a "Learning" type remote allowing single or multiple units to be controlled by the one handheld remote control - the choice is yours.

--- PAGE 7 ---
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
1. How much extra light will a Sky Tunnel™™™ give me?
There is no standard answer because of the variables that affect the performance of any skylight.
Like time of year, time of day, throat size, length of shaft, dome orientation on the roof, room size, wall colours and general decor.
Plus general weather & ambient light conditions always effect the end result.
Our many years of experience has taught us that an assessment of these variables, and your needs, is the most effective way that we can ensure that you get the natural light you're looking for.
Your local Sky Tunnel dealer will be able to help you.

7. How important is the tubing material?
Very important as it transmits the outside light into your room.
Key factors are the open area of the tubing, the length of the tubing, and that the tubing should be "shiny" and, in the case of a flexible tube, quite taunt.
Our Rigid system uses Alanod Miro Silver with a total reflection of 98%.
Using inferior products will dramatically reduce the efficiency of the Sky Tunnel™.

2. Does my interior colour scheme affect the performance of my Sky Tunnel™™™? Yes it does.
Light bright colours will tend to reflect daylight around the room while dark colours will tend to absorb daylight.
Adjusting the size or quantity will help to solve this problem.

8. Does heat come through a Sky Tunnel™™™?
Minimal heat will enter through the Sky Tunnel™, as the unit is double glazed at ceiling level.
It also has the dome at roof level, reducing heat transmittance, and none of the tubing components hold heat.
Therefore there will be no additional heat load on the building.
In fact compared to electrical lighting, or traditional skylights, the temperatures are significantly lower.

3. Will my Sky Tunnel™™™ leak?
No. The Sky Tunnel™™™ is watertight and guaranteed against leaking.
Your installer or dealer will guarantee the the installation against any leaking.
As part of the testing for Australian Standard AS4285, the Sky Tunnel™ was subjected to winds of 16 metres per second and water spray of 3 litres per second.
Any water penetration is a failure. Sky Tunnel™ passed this and all other tests in AS4285.

9. What is the maximum length of tubing?
For Flexi-tube we recommend a maximum of 3m, which covers over 95% of residential applications and some commercial applications.
Any longer than this, we recommend using the Rigid98 Tubing system.
This can be used effectively over 6m in length, however the longer the tubing, the less light transmittance.
For more information look on the Attic Parts page of this brochure.

10. Can I turn off my Sky Tunnel™?
Yes. If you install the Vari-light, the Sky Tunnel™ can be opened & closed as required.

11. Can a Sky Tunnel™ be used on a multi-storey building?
Yes. As long as the space above the Sky Tunnel™™™ is clear so the tubing can run as straight as possible.
Normally a void, such as a cupboard is placed above the Sky Tunnel so the tubing is not visible in the room it is running through.

4. What Warranty will my Sky Tunnel™™™ have?
The Sky Tunnel™™™ includes a 7 year manufacturers warranty.

5. Where is the Technology from? And where is the Sky Tunnel™ made?
The Sky Tunnel™ was invented in Australia in 1991, and sold under the name Sola Skylights.
It was sold throughout the USA as Sun Tunnel, and the UK as Sky Tunnel.
Since 2007 the product has been sold worldwide as Sky Tunnel™.
Originally manufactured in Australia, the tooling and machinery was transferred to the Philippines in June 2008. All manufacturing now takes place in our factory in the Clark Freeport Zone, Pampanga.

12. Can I have ventilation with my Sky Tunnel™?
Yes. The standard Sky Tunnel™ has the option of passive ventilation utilising our Interchangable Vent System.
For extra ventilation, you can install the Power Kit - Exhaust Fan.

6. How strong is the Dome?
The Acrylic Dome on the Sky Tunnel™ was live load tested to 120kg as per Australian Standard AS4285.
The roof components should always be installed on a roof, placing them on a vertical wall is not recommended, as the light performance will not be adequate.

13. Is security an issue with the Sky Tunnel™?
Our experience has shown us that the Sky Tunnel™™™ is not used as a method of entering a secure building.
There is normally far easier and safer points of entry, with most crimes being opportunistic.
For those who are concerned, we can advise several options which can be added to the Sky Tunnel™™™ to increase its security.

--- PAGE 8 ---
Sky Tunnel-XL2
Daylighting the world for more than 20 years!
Australian Technology
YOUR CARBON FOOTPR
INSTALL SKY TUNNEL
SG Eco Industries Inc.
Building 15A Philexcel Business Park, M-Roxas Highway,
Clark Freeport Zone, Pampanga, PHILIPPINES
Ph: (045) 499 1037
Fx: (045) 499 1443
International: +63 45 499 1037
Email: office@eco.ph Web: www.eco.ph
STANDARDS Australia
Skylight Industry Association
BBA BRITISH BOARD OF AGREMENT
CERTIFICATE No. 04/4141
Made in the Philippines
QUALITY ASSURED COMPANY 250 9001
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM 150 14001
All images and information in this catalogue are the legal property of SG Eco Industries Inc. and may not be reproduced for any purpose without owners prior written consent.
